# GiftIdeas
Gift idea generator

A research project into different forms of NLP methods and their applications.

The most accurate and efficient method is encapsulated in the opensource-generate.py
I used a flan-t5 model and trained it with my own data generated by using keywordmap.py to supply simplifynames.py with common stop words and keywords. Then simplifynames.py would use these to remove stop words from product titles. It didn’t create very accurate simplifications but it was enough to have a starting point so I could manually edit them to be correct faster. Then I used finetuning.py to fine-tune the flan model and it achieved 97% accuracy when run on an unseen dataset.
I started with a t5-small model but it wasn’t accurate enough as it was too simple.

Then I used subcategories-graph.py to generate a graph linking all the subcategories of products together by similar categories. I used sentence transformers and calculated the cosine similarities between embeddings so similar numbers were clustered together


Other avenues researched:
no-gpt-generate.py used clustering and regex to simplify the product names but this doesn't really work for the amazon products because they are so varied and long which is why the cluster names weren't accurate.

openai-generate.py outsourced the simplification to chatgpt but it needs a paid subscription to the service though so I didn't use it

spacy-generate used spacy noun chunks to generate simple names, where it takes the longest noun as the main product idea. However this isn't an accurate way to get a description of a product so it didn't work

Amazon Dataset - https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/lokeshparab/amazon-products-dataset/data?select=All+Exercise+and+Fitness.csv

Some stopwords I used - https://gist.github.com/sebleier/554280


- An idea to make it easier to tell what some products are is to include the category, some product names aren't very descriptive
- But this might not be useful because we're looking for general ideas anyway so less descriptive names will get filtered out
Need to think of ideas like "Power supply for Xbox 1", current model would only do "power supply"
Could be added in afterwards based on user inputs? eg if they like gaming could say "power supply for games console" as an example

Next steps:
- Make a larger dataset of gift ideas
- Find a way to filter these based on criteria (start small)
- Get more gifts from other sources (find new datasets)
- Make frontend for user to input these things
- Make more inputs for more accurate
- Product link
